---
symbol: A/RES/80/15
record_id: "4095874"
title: "Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco) :"
date: "2025-12-05"
language: EN
source_pdf: https://digitallibrary.un.org/record/4095874/files/A_RES_80_15-EN.pdf
extract_version: "1.2.0"
extracted_at: "2026-02-28T18:12:03Z"
---

United Nations

General Assembly Distr.: General 5 December 2025

Eightieth session Agenda item 93 Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco)

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 1 December 2025

[on the report of the First Committee (A/80/534, para. 7)]

80/15. Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America

The General Assembly,

Recalling that the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco)1 was opened for signature in Mexico City on 14 February 1967,

Recalling also that, in its resolution 2286 (XXII) of 5 December 1967, it welcomed with special satisfaction the Treaty of Tlatelolco as an event of historic significance in the efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to promote international peace and security,

Recalling further that, in its preamble, the Treaty of Tlatelolco states that militarily denuclearized zones are not an end in themselves but rather a means for achieving general and complete disarmament at a later stage,

Recalling that, in its preamble, the Treaty of Tlatelolco notes that the establishment of militarily denuclearized zones is closely linked with the maintenance of peace and security in the respective regions and that the military denuclearization of vast geographical zones, adopted by the sovereign decision of the States comprised therein, will exercise a beneficial influence on other regions where similar conditions exist,

Considering that, 58 years following its adoption, the Treaty of Tlatelolco remains a living instrument and a source of inspiration for the creation of other nuclear-weapon-free zones,

1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 634, No. 9068.

Taking note of the proclamation of Latin America and the Caribbean as a zone of peace by the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States at its second summit, held in Havana on 28 and 29 January 2014, and the commitment undertaken in this context by the States of the region to continue to promote nuclear disarmament as a priority objective,2

Highlighting the fact that the Treaty of Tlatelolco, which is in force for all 33 sovereign States of the region, consolidated the first nuclear-weapon-free zone established in a densely populated region,

Reiterating the important contribution of the treaties of Tlatelolco, Rarotonga, 3 Bangkok4 and Pelindaba5 and the Treaty on a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone in Central Asia,6 as well as the Antarctic Treaty7 and the declaration by Mongolia of its nuclear- weapon-free status, to the achievement of nuclear non‑proliferation and nuclear disarmament,

Recalling all relevant United Nations resolutions in support of nuclear-weapon- free zones,

Highlighting the value of enhancing cooperation among the nuclear-weapon- free zones, including through the holding of joint meetings of States Parties, signatories and observers to the treaties establishing such zones,

Welcoming the convening of Conferences of States Parties and Signatories to Treaties that Establish Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zones and Mongolia and their contribution to achieving and maintaining a nuclear-weapon-free world,

Noting that the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non‑Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in its Final Document,8 encouraged the establishment of new nuclear-weapon-free zones on the basis of arrangements freely arrived at among States of the region concerned and the fostering of cooperation and enhanced consultation mechanisms among the existing nuclear-weapon-free zones through the establishment of concrete measures, in order to fully implement the principles and objectives of the relevant nuclear-weapon-free zone treaties, and commended the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean for its leadership in this field,

Reaffirming the importance of the Agency as the appropriate legal and political forum for ensuring full compliance with and implementation of the Treaty of Tlatelolco, as well as cooperation with the entities of other nuclear-weapon-free zones,

Recalling that its resolution 73/71 of 5 December 2018 decided to convene the fourth Conference of Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zones and Mongolia as a one-day conference at United Nations Headquarters in New York, and noting that the Conference has not yet been convened,

Recalling also its resolution 77/35 of 7 December 2022,

2 See A/68/914, annex.

3 The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 10: 1985 (United Nations publication, Sales No.
E.86.IX.7), appendix VII.

4 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1981, No. 33873.

5 A/50/426, annex.

6 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2970, No. 51633.

7 Ibid., vol. 402, No. 5778.

8 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, Final Document, vols. I–III (NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol. I), NPT/CONF.2010/50
(Vol. II) and NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol. III)).

1. Welcomes the fact that the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco) is in force for all sovereign States of the region;

2. Notes with satisfaction that the year 2025 marks the fifty-sixth anniversary of the entry into force, on 25 April 1969, of the Treaty of Tlatelolco and of the establishment of the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean;

3. Reiterates the importance of the cooperation agreements and memorandums of understanding signed between the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean and the Pacific Islands Forum, the African Commission on Nuclear Energy and the Central Asian nuclear-weapon- free zone, and encourages those and other regions to advance in their full and effective implementation with the objective of fostering cooperation and consultation mechanisms;

4. Encourages once again States Parties to Additional Protocols I and II to the Treaty of Tlatelolco9 to review their interpretative declarations thereto, in accordance with action 9 of the Final Document of the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,10 reaffirming and recognizing the legitimate interests of the States that comprise the nuclear- weapon-free zone in Latin America and the Caribbean in receiving full and unequivocal security assurances from the nuclear-weapon States;

5. Encourages the States members of the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean to continue the activities and efforts that they conduct jointly with the Agency, inter alia:

(a) To support the efforts that are being undertaken in a multilateral context to identify and seek effective measures that favour compliance with disarmament and non‑proliferation commitments;

(b) To enhance cooperation with States Parties and signatories to treaties that establish nuclear-weapon-free zones and Mongolia;

(c) To promote activities on nuclear disarmament and non‑proliferation education;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its eighty-third session the item entitled “Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco)”.

52nd plenary meeting 1 December 2025

9 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 634, No. 9068.

10 See 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, Final Document, vol. I (NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol. I)), part I, Conclusions and recommendations for follow-on actions, section I, entitled “Nuclear disarmament”.