---
symbol: A/RES/80/65
record_id: "4096142"
title: "Report of the Conference on Disarmament :"
date: "2025-12-05"
language: EN
source_pdf: https://digitallibrary.un.org/record/4096142/files/A_RES_80_65-EN.pdf
extract_version: "1.3.0"
extracted_at: "2026-02-28T18:46:54Z"
---

United Nations

General Assembly Distr.: General 5 December 2025

Eightieth session Agenda item 101 (a) Review of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session: report of the Conference on Disarmament

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 1 December 2025

[on the report of the First Committee (A/80/534, para. 7)]

80/65. Report of the Conference on Disarmament

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Conference on Disarmament,1

Recalling its resolution 79/71 of 2 December 2024,

Convinced that the Conference on Disarmament, as the single multilateral disarmament negotiating forum of the international community, has the primary role in substantive negotiations on priority questions of disarmament,

Recognizing the addresses of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and other high- level officials in the Conference on Disarmament, and referring to their various expressions of support for and concern about the endeavours of the Conference and calls for the Conference to commence negotiations without delay to advance disarmament goals through the adoption of a balanced and comprehensive programme of work,

Recognizing also the need to conduct multilateral negotiations with the aim of reaching agreement on concrete issues, and emphasizing the importance of effective multilateralism in the context of the changing international climate,

Welcoming the intensive efforts by States members and Presidents of the Conference on Disarmament at its 2025 session and by the coordinators of the five subsidiary bodies, which resulted in the re-establishment, in accordance with its rules of procedure, of subsidiary bodies at its 2025 session and extensive discussions within each subsidiary body, including on areas of possible convergence related to advancing substantive work on all agenda items, while also expressing concern that the

Conference did not reach consensus on a programme of work, nor did the Conference succeed in commencing its substantive work by means of negotiations,

Recalling, in this respect, that the Conference on Disarmament has a number of priority issues for negotiation to achieve disarmament goals,

Welcoming the overwhelming call for greater flexibility with respect to implementing the mandate of the Conference on Disarmament on the basis of a balanced and comprehensive programme of work,

Underlining the need for continued cooperation among the States members of the Conference on Disarmament as well as among the successive Presidents of the Conference,

Noting with appreciation the efforts, contributions and decisions made at the 2025 session to promote substantive discussions on issues on the agenda, including, inter alia, the decision on the work of the Conference on Disarmament on the re‑establishment, in accordance with its rules of procedure, of five subsidiary bodies for the 2025 session, adopted on 30 January 2025,

Reaffirming the importance of multilateralism and inclusivity through participation of States not members of the Conference in the work of the Conference on Disarmament, in accordance with its rules of procedure,2 and noting with continued regret that the latter has once again not been sufficiently ensured, 3

Acknowledging the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, as a stand-alone, autonomous institution, and the contribution that its research makes,

Recognizing the importance of engagement between civil society and the Conference on Disarmament according to decisions taken by the Conference,

1. Reaffirms the role of the Conference on Disarmament as the single multilateral disarmament negotiating forum of the international community;

2. Appreciates the strong support expressed for the Conference on Disarmament at its 2025 session by Ministers for Foreign Affairs and other high-level officials, while also acknowledging their concern about its ongoing impasse of more than two decades, and takes into account their calls for greater flexibility with respect to commencing the substantive work of the Conference without further delay;

3. Calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to further intensify consultations and to explore possibilities for overcoming its ongoing deadlock by adopting and implementing a balanced and comprehensive programme of work at the earliest possible date during its 2026 session, bearing in mind the decision on the programme of work adopted by the Conference on 29 May 2009,4 as well as other relevant decisions and proposals;

4. Notes with appreciation the decisions of the Conference on Disarmament on the re-establishment, in accordance with its rules of procedure, of subsidiary bodies on agenda items 1 to 4 and one on agenda items 5, 6 and 7, 5 for the 2025 session;

5. Encourages the current President and the incoming President of the Conference on Disarmament, bearing in mind the role of the Conference on Disarmament as the single multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, as well as building on the decisions on the work of the Conference on Disarmament for 20246 and 20257 and with a view to the early resumption of substantive work during its 2026 session, in accordance with its rules of procedure, to conduct consultations on the activities of the Conference in fulfilling its mandate during the intersessional period and, if possible, to make recommendations, taking into account all relevant proposals, past, present and future, including those submitted as documents of the Conference, views presented and discussions held, and to endeavour to keep the membership of the Conference informed, as appropriate, of their consultations;

6. Requests the current President and successive Presidents of the Conference on Disarmament to cooperate with the States members of the Conference in the effort to guide the Conference to the early resumption of its substantive work, including negotiations, at its 2026 session;

7. Recognizes the importance of continuing consultations in 2026 on the question of the expansion of the membership of the Conference on Disarmament;

8. Calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to undertake in its work further substantive efforts to ensure multilateralism and inclusivity through participation of States not members of the Conference at its sessions, in accordance with its rules of procedure;8

9. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure and to strengthen, if needed, the provision to the Conference on Disarmament of all necessary administrative, substantive and conference support services;

10. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to submit to the General Assembly at its eighty-first session a report on its work;

11. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its eighty-first session, under the item entitled “Review of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session”, the sub-item entitled “Report of the Conference on Disarmament”.

52nd plenary meeting 1 December 2025

---

[^1]: Official Records of the General Assembly, Eightieth Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/80/27).

[^2]: CD/8/Rev.10, paras. 18 and 32–36.

[^3]: Official Records of the General Assembly, Eightieth Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/80/27),
    paras. 9 and 10, noting that the Conference received 32 requests for participation in its work and
    that the Conference invited a number of non-member States to participate in its work but that did
    not reach agreement on the other requests to participate in the work of the Conference.

[^4]: Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/64/27),
    para. 18.

[^5]: Ibid., Eightieth Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/80/27), para. 13.

[^6]: Ibid., Seventy-ninth Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/79/27), paras. 13 and 14.

[^7]: Ibid., Eightieth Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/80/27), para. 13.

[^8]: CD/8/Rev.10, paras. 18 and 32–36.