---
symbol: A/RES/80/68
record_id: "4096141"
title: "Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects :"
date: "2025-12-05"
language: EN
source_pdf: https://digitallibrary.un.org/record/4096141/files/A_RES_80_68-EN.pdf
extract_version: "1.3.0"
extracted_at: "2026-02-28T18:47:09Z"
---

United Nations

General Assembly Distr.: General 5 December 2025

Eightieth session Agenda item 103 Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 1 December 2025

[on the report of the First Committee (A/80/534, para. 7)]

80/68. Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 79/75 of 2 December 2024,

Recalling with satisfaction the adoption and entry into force of the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects 1 and its amended article 1,2 the Protocol on Non-Detectable Fragments (Protocol I),3 the Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Mines, Booby Traps and Other Devices (Protocol II) 4 and its amended version, 5 the Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Incendiary Weapons (Protocol III), 6  the Protocol on Blinding Laser Weapons (Protocol IV)7 and the Protocol on Explosive Remnants of War (Protocol V),8

Welcoming the results of the Sixth Review Conference[^9] and the Meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, held in Geneva from 13 to 15 November 2024, and the adoption of its final document,10

Welcoming also the results of the Twenty-sixth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II, held in Geneva on 12 November 2024,

Welcoming further the work of the Eighteenth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V, held in Geneva on 11 November 2024,

Noting with satisfaction that the Meeting of the Group of Experts of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II and the Meeting of Experts of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V were held in Geneva on 9 and 10 September and 8 September 2025, respectively,

Noting with satisfaction also that the Group of Governmental Experts on Emerging Technologies in the Area of Lethal Autonomous Weapons Systems of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention met in Geneva from 3 to 7 March and from 1 to 5 September 2025,

Recalling the role played by the International Committee of the Red Cross in the elaboration of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, and welcoming the particular efforts of various international, non‑governmental and other organizations in raising awareness of the humanitarian consequences of various categories of conventional weapons which may be deemed to be excessively injurious or to have indiscriminate effects,

Emphasizing the importance of the perspectives of women, men, boys and girls in considering the issues addressed by the Convention and its Protocols,

1. Calls upon all States that have not yet done so to take all measures to become Parties, as soon as possible, to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects and the Protocols thereto, as amended, with a view to achieving the widest possible adherence to these instruments at an early date and so as to ultimately achieve their universality;

2. Calls upon all High Contracting Parties to the Convention that have not yet done so to express their consent to be bound by the Protocols to the Convention and the amendment extending the scope of the Convention and the Protocols thereto to include armed conflicts of a non‑international character;

3. Emphasizes the importance of the universalization of the Protocol on Explosive Remnants of War (Protocol V);

4. Welcomes additional ratifications and acceptances of or accessions to the Convention, as well as consents to be bound by the Protocols thereto;

5. Acknowledges the continued efforts of the Secretary-General, as depositary of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, and of the respective office holders of the conferences of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, Protocol V and Amended Protocol II, on behalf of the High Contracting Parties, to achieve the goal of universality;

6. Welcomes the work of the Implementation Support Unit;

7. Calls upon the High Contracting Parties and States not Parties to the Convention participating in the meetings of the High Contracting Parties to the

Convention and its annexed Protocols to ensure full compliance with all financial obligations under the Convention and its annexed Protocols, and calls upon the High Contracting Parties to explore measures that could reduce costs and improve the efficiency and financial stability of such meetings without prejudice to the rules of procedure and to their quality, and their commitment to address issues arising from outstanding contributions in a timely manner;

8. Recalls the following decisions by the Sixth Review Conference and the conclusions and recommendations of the Meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, held in Geneva from 13 to 15 November 2024:

(a) To continue the work of the open-ended Group of Governmental Experts on Emerging Technologies in the Area of Lethal Autonomous Weapons Systems, established in decision 1 of the Fifth Review Conference of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention,11 adhering to the agreed recommendations contained in document CCW/CONF.V/2 in line with decision 1 of the Sixth Review Conference, 12 to strengthen the Convention;

(b) To adopt the consolidated financial measures contained in annex III to document CCW/CONF.VI/11, which may be reviewed by the meetings of the High Contracting Parties during the review cycle of 2022–2026;

(c) To continue the Sponsorship Programme;

(d) To organize in 2025, in an in-person format, in accordance with the regular practice under the Convention, and subject to available resources, the following Convention-related activities:

(i) The Meeting of Experts of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V, on 8 September 2025, in accordance with the relevant decisions taken by the Eighteenth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V;

(ii) The Meeting of the Group of Experts of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II, on 9 and 10 September 2025, in accordance with the relevant decisions taken by the Twenty-sixth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II;

(iii) The open-ended Group of Governmental Experts on Emerging Technologies in the Area of Lethal Autonomous Weapons Systems, for a duration of 10 days, from 3 to 7 March and from 1 to 5 September 2025, and to adopt its estimated costs;13

(iv) The Nineteenth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V, on 10 November 2025, in accordance with the relevant decisions taken by the Eighteenth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V;14

(v) The Twenty-seventh Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II, on 11 November 2025, in accordance with the relevant decisions taken by the Twenty-sixth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II;15

(vi) The Meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, from 12 to 14 November 2025, and to adopt its estimated costs;16

9. Welcomes the commitment by the High Contracting Parties to continue to contribute to the further development of international humanitarian law, and, in this context, to keep under review both the development of new weapons and uses of weapons, which may have indiscriminate effects or cause unnecessary suffering;

10. Also welcomes the commitment of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V to the effective and efficient implementation of the Protocol and the implementation of the decisions of the First and Second Conferences of the High Contracting Parties to the Protocol establishing a comprehensive framework for the exchange of information and cooperation;

11. Notes that, in conformity with article 8 of the Convention, conferences may be convened to examine amendments to the Convention or to any of the Protocols thereto, to examine additional protocols concerning other categories of conventional weapons not covered by existing Protocols or to review the scope and application of the Convention and the Protocols thereto and to examine any proposed amendments or additional protocols;

12. Underlines the vital role of the full and equal participation of women in decision-making and implementation of the Convention;

13. Requests the Secretary-General to render the assistance necessary and to provide such services as may be required for the annual conferences and expert meetings of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention and of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II and Protocol V, as well as for any continuation of the work after the meetings;

14. Also requests the Secretary-General, in his capacity as depositary of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, to continue to inform the General Assembly periodically, by electronic means, of ratifications and acceptances of and accessions to the Convention, its amended article 1 and the Protocols;

15. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its eighty-first session the item entitled “Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects”.

52nd plenary meeting 1 December 2025

---

[^1]: United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1342, No. 22495.

[^2]: Ibid., vol. 2260, No. 22495.

[^3]: Ibid., vol. 1342, No. 22495.

[^4]: Ibid., vol. 1342, No. 22495.

[^5]: Ibid., vol. 2048, No. 22495.

[^6]: Ibid., vol. 1342, No. 22495.

[^7]: Ibid., vol. 2024, No. 22495.

[^8]: Ibid., vol. 2399, No. 22495.

[^9]: CCW/CONF.VI/11.

[^10]: CCW/MSP/2024/7.

[^11]: See CCW/CONF.V/10.

[^12]: See CCW/CONF.VI/11.

[^13]: CCW/MSP/2024/5.

[^14]: CCW/P.V/CONF/2024/5.

[^15]: CCW/AP.II/CONF.26/5.

[^16]: CCW/MSP/2024/6.